Prepare release v1.5.0 (#179)
databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs: CHANGELOG.md

# Release History

## 1.5.0

### Highlights

- Added OAuth M2M support (databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs#168, databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs#177)
- Added named query parameters support (databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs#162, databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs#175)
- `runAsync` options is now deprecated (databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs#176)
- Added staging ingestion support (databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs#164)

### Databricks OAuth support

Databricks OAuth support added in v1.4.0 is now extended with M2M flow. To use OAuth instead of PAT, pass
a corresponding auth provider type and options to `DBSQLClient.connect`:

```ts
// instantiate DBSQLClient as usual

client.connect({
  // provide other mandatory options as usual - e.g. host, path, etc.
  authType: 'databricks-oauth',
  oauthClientId: '...', // optional - overwrite default OAuth client ID
  azureTenantId: '...', // optional - provide custom Azure tenant ID
  persistence: ...,     // optional - user-provided storage for OAuth tokens, should implement OAuthPersistence interface
})
```

U2M flow involves user interaction - the library will open a browser tab asking user to log in. To use this flow,

> no other options are required except of setting the auth provider type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no other options are required except for `authType`.
```

M2M flow does not require any user interaction, and therefore is a good option, say, for scripting. To use this
flow, two extra options are required for `DBSQLClient.connect`: `oauthClientId` and `oauthClientSecret`.

Also see [Databricks docs](https://docs.databricks.com/en/dev-tools/auth.html#oauth-machine-to-machine-m2m-authentication)
for more details about Databricks OAuth.

### Named query parameters

> v1.5.0 adds a support of [query parameters](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-parameter-marker.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
v1.5.0 adds a support for [query parameters](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-parameter-marker.html).
```

Currently only named parameters are supported.

Basic usage example:

```ts
// obtain session object as usual

const operation = session.executeStatement('SELECT :p1 AS "str_param", :p2 AS "number_param"', {
  namedParameters: {
    p1: 'Hello, World',
    p2: 3.14,
  },
});
```

The library will infer parameter types from passed primitive objects. Supported data types include booleans, various

> numeric types (including native `BigInt` and `Int64` from `node-int64`), native `Date` type, and string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
numeric types (including native `BigInt` and `Int64` from `node-int64`), native `Date` type, and `String`.
```

Author: Actually in JS primitive types are boolean/number/string, and classes like `Boolean`/`Number`/`String` are just wrappers for them. Usually primitive values and classes are interchangeable, but not in all cases.

> It's also possible to explicitly specify parameter type by passing a `DBSQLParameter` instances instead of primitive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to explicitly specify the parameter type by passing `DBSQLParameter` instances instead of primitive
```

> values. It also allows to use values that don't have a corresponding primitive representation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values. It also allows one to use values that don't have a corresponding primitive representation:
```

```ts
import { ..., DBSQLParameter, DBSQLParameterType } from '@databricks/sql';

// obtain session object as usual

const operation = session.executeStatement('SELECT :p1 AS "date_param", :p2 AS "interval_type"', {
  namedParameters: {
    p1: new DBSQLParameter({

>       value: new DBSQLParameter({

Reviewer: Is this example correct? Why is `new DBSQLParameter()` called twice?

Author: Good chatch, thank you! Yes, it's a typo

        value: new Date('2023-09-06T03:14:27.843Z'),
        type: DBSQLParameterType.DATE, // by default, Date objects are inferred as TIMESTAMP, this allows to override the type
      }),
    }),
    p2: new DBSQLParameter({

>       value: new DBSQLParameter({

Reviewer: Ditto my question above? Why is the `.value` of a parameter another instance of `DBSQLParameter`?

        value: 5, // INTERVAL '5' DAY
        type: DBSQLParameterType.INTERVALDAY
      }),
    }),
  },
});
```

Of course, you can mix primitive values and `DBSQLParameter` instances.

### `runAsync` deprecation

> The `runAsync` is going to become unsupported soon, and we're deprecating it. It will remain available for the next

Reviewer: If we're removing this functionality shouldn't we bump the connector to version `2.0`, per semantic versioning? It's not clear to me what's actually happening here.

"...is going to become unsupported soon" suggests it still works but will be removed in the future. "...but from now it will be ignored" sounds like we already deprecated it.

Author: I see your point, and I also had to make this decision, but ended up with incrementing the minor version, and here's why. First of all, this option was just a fine-tuning, and even if we allowed user to pass `runAsync = false`, we never encouraged them to do so. `runAsync = true` was the default, and we used it like this in examples, and so on. So what we do here is to basically make this tweak internal and no longer allow user to change it. For user, nothing changes in library behavior - the library API stays the same, the library internally does all necessary work to handle async query processing and so on. We keep `runAsync` option for now and mark it as deprecated so if people are still using it - their IDEs and linters will not just show an error, but provide a hint to remove the usage. So considering all the above I decided it's more or less okay to proceed with just a minor version change

Reviewer: > So what we do here is to basically make this tweak internal and no longer allow user to change it.

Strictly speaking, this would justify bumping the connector to version 2.0 as it does in fact remove functionality from a previous version of the connector. This connector no longer supports something that the previous version supported.

That `runAsync` defaulted to `false` before doesn't affect this reasoning. But I see why we wouldn't want to make such a major version bump for something this little. I'm not clear how difficult it would be to punt complete removal of this behaviour til version 2 at this point. But if we follow semantic versioning then we really shouldn't remove a knob that some users may have come to expect. We can throw a linting / deprecation warning without removing the feature, right?

Author: > We can throw a linting / deprecation warning without removing the feature, right?

Well, that's what we actually did - we marked it with jsdoc `@deprecated This option is no longer supported and will be removed in future releases`, so IDEs and linters would show a warning when using this option. We can change the exact message if you suggest a new one

Author: Here's an example https://github.com/databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs/blob/28e55f39c7534b47fea8870f8dfb6edacc2897cc/lib/contracts/IDBSQLSession.ts#L9-L12

And that's how it looks in Idea when using the library:

![image](https://github.com/databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs/assets/12139186/1b02d166-f157-4e5a-b27a-3e469a239b01)

Author: @susodapop I rephrased a runAsync deprecation chapter in changelog (https://github.com/databricks/databricks-sql-nodejs/pull/179/commits/a3426d1f5730792eaee774822404602cb2138ac2) - can you please take a look and share you opinion? thank you!

> The `runAsync` is going to become unsupported soon, and we're deprecating it. It will remain available for the next

Reviewer: If we keep this segment as-is, then the following wording suggestion can be applied:

```suggestion
The `runAsync` is going to be deprecated in a future release. It will remain available for the next
```

> few releases, but from now it will be ignored and behave like it's always `true`. From user's point, the library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
few releases, but from now it will be ignored and behave like it's always `true`. From user's perspective, the library
```

> behaviour won't change, so if you used `runAsync` anywhere in your code - you can now just remove it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behaviour won't change. So if you used `runAsync` anywhere in your code - you can now just remove it.
```

### Data ingestion support

> This feature allows to upload, retrieve and remove unity catalog volume files using SQL `PUT`, `GET` and `REMOVE` commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature allows you to upload, retrieve, and remove unity catalog volume files using SQL `PUT`, `GET` and `REMOVE` commands.
```

Can we add a link to the documentation for this feature?

Author: TBH I spent some time trying to find it, but failed. If you know where are the ingestion docs located - please point me to it, I'd appreciate help here

### `runAsync` deprecation

> Since this release, the library will execute all queries asynchronously, so we deprecate `runAsync` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, the library will execute all queries asynchronously, so we have deprecated the `runAsync` option.
```

> It will be completely removed in v2, but we encourage to stop using it since now and remove all the usages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will be completely removed in v2.  So you should not use it going forward and remove all the usages
```

> from your code. From user's perspective, the library behaviour won't change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from your code before version 2 is released. From user's perspective the library behaviour won't change.
```
